Editorial suggestions (IAB review) (#27)
intarchboard/draft-protocol-maintenance: draft-iab-protocol-maintenance.md

Time and experience shows that negative consequences to interoperability
accumulate over time if implementations apply the robustness principle.  This
problem originates from an assumption implicit in the principle that it is not

> possible to effect change in a system the size of the Internet.  It assumes

Reviewer: Very minor nit: while effect is also correct, I find affect to be clearer. Happy to be overruled by native speakers (in which case I'll learn something :-) ) and happy to have this merged with either effect or affect

```suggestion
possible to affect change in a system the size of the Internet.  It assumes
```

Author: This is definitely "effect change", IMO =)

https://writingexplained.org/affect-change-or-effect-change

> What does affect change mean? Affect change is an incorrect version of the phrase "effect change".

Reviewer: Ah I see. `affect a system` means roughly the same as `effect change in a system` whereas `affect change` is redundant. Thank you :) Marking as resolved.

There is good evidence to suggest that many important protocols are routinely
maintained beyond their inception.  In particular, a sizeable proportion of IETF
activity is dedicated to the stewardship of existing protocols.  This document
serves primarily as a record of the hazards in applying the robustness principle
too broadly, and offers an alternative strategy for handling interoperability
problems in deployments.

> Ideally, protocol implementations that can be actively maintained never have

Reviewer 2: This is a pretty big change in stance.  Perhaps that was deliberate, but I prefer this framing.

```suggestion
Ideally, protocol implementations can be actively maintained and never have
```

Author: I’m fine with that tweak—mainly I think it’s important to mention the active maintenance here, and having it be an “and” still achieves that while maintaining the strength of the statement.

to apply the robustness principle.  The robustness principle may still need
to used as a short-term mitigation for deployments that cannot yet be easily
updated and do not yet have documented specifications for workarounds, but
such cases need not be permanent. This is discussed further in {{active}}.

> It is important to note that not applying the robustness principle does
> not mean that implementations will be inflexible to new input. As discussed

Reviewer 2: Double-negation.
```suggestion
Avoiding use of the robustness principle does
not mean that implementations will be inflexible to new input. As discussed
```

specification could be imperfect.  This contextualizes the principle in an
important way.

Imperfect specifications are unavoidable, largely because it is more important to
proceed to implementation and deployment than it is to perfect a specification.
A protocol benefits greatly from experience with its use.  A deployed protocol
is immeasurably more useful than a perfect protocol specification.  This is
particularly true in early phases of system design, to which the robustness
principle is best suited.

As demonstrated by the IAB document on Successful Protocols {{?RFC5218}},
success or failure of a protocol depends far more on factors like usefulness
than on technical excellence. Timely publication of protocol specifications,
even with the potential for flaws, likely contributed significantly to the
eventual success of the Internet.

This premise that specifications will be imperfect is correct — however,
the robustness principle is almost always the incorrect solution to the
problem.

# Protocol Decay

The application of the robustness principle to any system that is in early
phases of deployment, such as the early Internet, is expedient.  Applying the

> principle defers the effort of dealing with interoperability problems and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
principle defers the effort of dealing with interoperability problems and
```
